"MapReduce-MPI WWW Site"_mws :c
:link(mws,index.html)

:line

MapReduce-MPI Papers :h3

If you use the MR-MPI library in one of your publications, please cite
the following paper and also list the URL of the "MR-MPI WWW
site"_mws, namely http://mapreduce.sandia.gov.

This paper describes the MR-MPI library and several MapReduce graph
algorithms for informatics problems:

[MapReduce in MPI for Large-Scale Graph Algorithms], S. J. Plimpton
and K. D. Devine, Parallel Computing, 37, 610-632 (2011).
("abstract"_abstracts/pc11.html) ("preprint"_pdf/pc11.pdf)

:line

The authors of the MR-MPI library are "Steve Plimpton"_sjp (sjplimp at
sandia.gov) and "Karen Devine"_kdd (kddevin at sandia.gov).

:link(sjp,http://www.sandia.gov/~sjplimp)
:link(kdd,http://www.cs.sandia.gov/~kddevin)

You can send us email regarding any of these issues:

If you use MR-MPI for something interesting, we'd like to hear about
it. :ulb,l

If you write a paper using the MR-MPI library, we can post a citation
to it on this page. :l

If you write a MapReduce program which calls the library, that others
would be interested in, you can send it and we'll include it in the
distribution. :l

If you enhance the library itself or have ideas for doing so, we can
discuss including the improvements in future releases. :l,ule

:line

This is a paper by Seung-Jin Sul and Andrey Tovchigrechko (J Craig
Venter Institute) on using the MR-MPI library to parallelize two
computational biology algorithms: BLAST and a neural network approach
called SOM.  They've run their models successfully on up to 1024
processors of the U Texas Ranger machine.

[Parallelizing BLAST and SOM algorithms with MapReduce-MPI library],
S.-J. Sul and A. Tovchigrechko, IEEE International Parallel &
Distributed Processing HICOMB Symposium, (2011).
("abstract"_abstracts/hicomb11.html) (download paper from "HICOMB
2011 proceedings site"_http://www.hicomb.org/proceedings.html)

:line

Ths is a paper by "Boyu Zhang"_http://www.eecis.udel.edu/~bzhang and
Michela Taufer (U Delaware) and collaborators who wrote two variants
of a general analysis algorithm for large structural biology datasets
requiring distributed memory.  The algorithm performance was evaluated
on 1024 cores across 15 data sets.

[On Efficiently Capturing Scientific Properties in Distributed Big
Data without Moving the Data: A Case Study in Distributed Structural
Biology using MapReduce], B. Zhang, T. Estrada, P. Cicotti, and
M. Taufer, in the Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International
Conferences on Computational Science and Engineering (CSE), Sydney,
Australia (2013). ("abstract"_abstracts/cse13.html) (download paper
from
"http://gcl.cis.udel.edu/publications/conferences/13_CSE_zhang.pdf"_http://gcl.cis.udel.edu/publications/conferences/13_CSE_zhang.pdf)
